### Overview

In the module CS2113, we have learnt the fundamentals of object-oriented programming and software engineering. 
With this knowledge, we were tasked to develop an application of our own over the course of 6 weeks.

Our team found that with the growing e-commerce industry, the demand for delivery personnel has increased. 
Which is why we decide to come up with a simple application to help make delivery jobs more convenient.
In order to fulfill this objective, some functions of our app  includes are :
* Ability to set maximum load of vehicle
  

* Ability to generate the shortest path for delivery
  

* Ability to record completed deliveries for the session

### Summary of Contributions

#### Code contributed
My contributions to the code can be accessed [here](https://nus-cs2113-ay2021s2.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&since=&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=false&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&tabAuthor=e0699194&tabRepo=AY2021S2-CS2113-W10-1%2Ftp%5Bmaster%5D&authorshipIsMergeGroup=false&authorshipFileTypes=docs~functional-code~test-code).

#### Enhancements implemented
I implemented the shortest path generator.

Aiming for better OOP, I created the `Menu` and `Controller` classes. This relieved the `Ui` class of some of its workload
as all the methods in `Menu` and `Controller` were previously carried out by it.

#### Contributions to documentation
I contributed by adding the expected outputs of the commands given in the UG.

#### Contributions to the DG
I contributed by adding the implementation on the shortest path generator.

#### Review/mentoring contributions
A PR which I reviewed and merged can be accessed [here](https://github.com/AY2021S2-CS2113-W10-1/tp/pull/114).


